# CCUS-Hub-Optimization
Optimization of Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage (CCUS) Hub : A Case Study in South Sumatra Indonesia

**Abstract**
Currently, Indonesia is striving to increase oil and gas production to reach a target of 1 million BOPD of oil and 12 BSCFD of gas by 2030. However, at the same time Indonesia pledged to reduce CO2eq emissions by 31.89% to 43.20% or equivalent to 912 MtCO2 up to 1235.5 MtCO2 by 2030 in alignment with the goal of Net Zero Emission (NZE) by 2060. Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage (CCUS) could be a promising strategy to achieve these dual objectives. However, implementing commercial-scale CCUS technology requires substantial infrastructure deployment and complex design considerations, including source selection, reservoir assessment, and pipeline routing. Therefore, this study proposed an optimization platform, DecarbonSystem, to facilitate the understanding of CO2 sources and sinks availability, pipeline route optimization, selection of sources and sinks, estimation of maximum CO2 injection rate, and estimation of CO2 price that make the project economically feasible by integrating three main models (capture, surface, storage).

The capture model was constructed by integrating CO2 source data, an economic database, and CO2 supply curve. The surface model was constructed by assessing multi-cost surface using the latest geographic information system (GIS) data and accounting for environmental and social impacts. The storage model was constructed by integrating storage capacity and storage or injection costs. Those models were then integrated and data reprocessing was performed to generate the CO2 pipeline candidate networks. Subsequently, a mathematical representation of the pipeline candidate networks combined with cost information were used to run a mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) optimization scheme using Gurobi solver or CPLEX solver to find the best source-sink pairings with the best transportation route to sequester a target amount of CO2.

The DecarbonSystem platform, developed using Python, integrates capture, transport, and storage models for comprehensive CCS/CCUS assessment. The platform facilitates flexible evaluation of sequestration scenarios, enhances understanding of CO2 source and sink availability, optimizes pipeline routing, and estimates economically feasible CO2 prices. Applied to case study in South Sumatra, the platform identified significant CCS/CCUS project potential with 8 coal-fired power plants and 11 oil and gas fields offering a combined CO2 source capacity of 14.4 MtCO2/year and 418.9 MtCO2 of storage capacity. Optimization analysis suggests capturing and storing 13.96 MtCO2/year in 11 fields for 30 years, transported using 527.95 km new pipeline, with Bangko Tengah as the primary source and Suban and Lagan fields providing the largest storage. Key fields like Lagan, Bulu, Ramba, Abab, and Limau Timur QQ-51 exhibit injection capacities exceeding 1 MtCO2/year/well. Economic analysis, employing a MARR of 15%, determined a required CO2 price of $89.28/tCO2 for project feasibility, with a break-even price of $49.02/tCO2. Moreover, the CCUS-EOR project in the Ramba field demonstrates potential for incremental oil recovery, estimated at 7.33 MMbbl.

Keywords: CCS/CCUS, Optimization, DecarbonSystem.
